
Ans 1. Primitive data types  includes byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean and char 

Ans 2.In Java, identifiers are used for identification purposes. Java Identifiers can be a class name, method name, variable name, or label. 

Ans 3.The main purpose of using a class being declared as final is to prevent the class from being subclassed. If a class is marked as final then no class can inherit any feature from the final class.

Ans 4. a)By  declaring a class with final keyword.
       b)By  declaring all of its constructors as private.

Ans 5. Yes , we can create an instance of final class in another class.

Ans 6.Volatile keyword is used to modify the value of a variable by different threads. It is also used to make classes thread safe. It means that multiple threads can use a method and instance of the classes at the same time without any problem. The volatile keyword can be used either with primitive type or objects.

Ans 7. a)Transient is a variables modifier used  in serialization. 

       b)Transient keyword plays an important role to meet security constraints.

Ans 8. Type casting is when you assign a value of one primitive data type to another type.

In Java, there are two types of casting:

Widening Casting (automatically) - converting a smaller type to a larger type size
byte -> short -> char -> int -> long -> float -> double

Narrowing Casting (manually) - converting a larger type to a smaller size type
double -> float -> long -> int -> char -> short -> byte

Ans 9.Boxing refers to the conversion of a primitive value into an object of the corresponding wrapper class .For example, converting int to Integer class.

Unboxing on the other hand refers to converting an object of a wrapper type to its corresponding primitive value. For example conversion of Integer to int. 

Ans 10.Keywords are the reserved words that have a pre defined meaning for the compiler and hence are restricted to be used as identifiers.

Identifiers are the name assigned to different programming constructs like classes, interfaces, methods ,variables etc.

Literals are the values that are assigned to Identifiers.

